```
layout: page-documentation
title:   Account Deletion
description: The Real-Time Manager allow you to delete your account.
meta_tags: accounts, delete
namespace:     documentation_accounts_delete
permalink:     /documentation/products/accounts/delete/ 
permalink_en:  /documentation/products/accounts/delete/
permalink_pt-br: /documentacao/produtos/gestao-de-contas/delete/
```

# Account Deletion

[Edit on GitHub]

**Real-Time Manager** allows you to delete your account. Here are some guidelines on how to do it.

1. Access [Real-Time Manager](https://manager.azion.com/);

2. Go to *Client Account* menu on the top right corner, select  *Account info*;

3. Click the *Delete account* button on the bottom of the page;

4. A window will open containing the status of the following items in your account:

   - DNS Zones: if you have active DNS, you will need to disable them before proceeding;
   - Edge Applications: your applications must be *removed* before closing your account;
   - Debts: you must clear any pending debts before completing the procedure.

   > The *Delete account* button will be activated only when the information mentioned above has been resolved.

5. Click on the *Delete account* button; 

Done! Your account has been deleted.

After successfully deleting your account you will be redirected to Azion website and you will see the following message: *Your account has been successfully deleted*. 

You will also receive an email confirming the deletion of your account. If you want to give feedback on your experience with Azion, contact us through [this e-mail.](feedback@azion.com)

> Your account information will be stored in case future conferences are needed. You can create a new account and continue your experience with Azion at any time. 

**Note:** You can create a *new account* at any time through our website.

------

Didn’t find what you were looking for? [Open a support ticket.](https://tickets.azion.com/)

