---
layout: page-documentation-md
title: Real-Time Purge
description: Through Real-Time Purge you can instantly delete your content cache on
  Azion.
meta_tags: edge applications, real-time purge
namespace: documentation_products_edge_applications_real_time_purge
permalink: "/documentation/products/edge-application/real-time-purge/"
permalink_en: "/documentation/products/edge-application/real-time-purge/"
permalink_pt-br: "/documentacao/produtos/edge-application/real-time-purge/"
---
# Real-Time **Purge** {#real-time-purge-title}

[Edit on GitHub <svg width="14" height="14" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><g fill="none" stroke="#F3652B"><path d="M4.81.71H.672v11.43H12.1V8.001" stroke-width=".8"/><path d="M6.87.786h5.155V5.94M6.31 6.5L12.026.786"/></g></svg>](https://github.com/aziontech/docs_en/edit/master/edge-application/real-time-purge/2021-01-14-index.md)

Through **Real-Time Purge** you can instantly delete the cache of your content at Azion, using a *Cache Key List*, a *URL Lis*t or a *Wildcard* expression that represents the objects you want to purge.

> 1. [Content update strategies](#Content-update-strategies)
> 2. [Real-Time Purge](#real-time-purge)
> 3. [Types of Purge](#Types-of-Purge)
> 4. [Purge methods](#Purge-methods)
> 5. [Purge objects with content variation](#Purge-objects-with-content-variation)
> 6. [Purge confirmation](#Purge-confirmation)
> 7. [Limits](#limits)

---

## 1. Content update strategies {#Content-update-strategies}

When you update content at your origin, you must choose the best strategy for updating it in Azion's cache. See the available options below: 

| Expiration time | Objects name with version | Real-Time Purge |
|--------------------|-----------------------------|-----------------|
| When configuring your cache policy, you determine the amount of time you want your objects to be cached at Azion. When you update your content at the origin, Azion can continue providing a cached copy of it, for as much time as you have set it to be cached. | We recommend, whenever possible, you use some versioning markup in an object name. When you update it at your origin, you can add the version in the object name, forcing each modification of your content to be treated as a new object by Azion. | You can instantly delete the cache of your content at Azion, from either Edge Caching or L2 Caching. This way, Azion system fetches the latest version of your content in the origin. |

> Whenever possible, use cache policies with long expiration time for your content, such as 1 year – setting the Maximum TTL field to 31,536,000 seconds. This way, you will be optimizing the performance of your content or application, improving the experience for your users, reducing traffic with Azion and reducing the load at your origin.

To version your objects name, you can use a sequential number, a timestamp or other mechanism that you think is most appropriate as a version markup. For example, instead of naming an image as image.jpg, you could name it *image_1.jpg* and, when you need to update it, change the version to *image_2.jpg*.

This way, each content update will be treated as a new object by Azion, which guarantees you the following benefits:

*   it allows you to control which object a request should return, even if the user has the previous version locally saved in the browser cache or in some intermediate cache. Even if Azion cache is removed, users can still access the old version of their local cache, until the expiration time elapses;
*   versioning allows you to provide different versions of your objects to different users;
*   it also simplifies the *rollback* process in case of problems with your update.

---

## 2. Real-Time Purge {#real-time-purge}

By providing a fast and predictable purge operation, Azion enables you to increase the expiration time (TTL) of your cached objects, or cache event-drive objects, improving the offload and performance of your content or application, and also reducing your traffic with Azion.

By using **Real-Time Purge** to manage the cache expiration of your content, you can also perform:

*   dynamic content caching and API responses, without sacrificing the user experience, as Azion's Edge Caching and L2 Caching products will be updated with your latest content;
*   better cache efficiency, ensuring greater control over how your objects are served by Azion;
*   better and more predictable management of obsolete or outdated objects, helping your developers to build reliable, resilient and better performing solutions.

In addition, we provide two interface options for running object purge in Edge Caching and cached L2 Caching: via [Real-Time Manager](https://manager.azion.com/) or via [Azion API]({% tl api_v3_real_time_purge %}).

#### To access Real-Time Purge via the web, proceed as follows:

1.  Access [Real-Time Manager](https://manager.azion.com/);
2.  In the **Products** menu, go to **Real-Time Purge** in the **Tools** section;
3.  Click the **New Purge** button, fill in the required fields, and click the **Purge** button.

> You can remove content from both **Edge Caching** - to clean up web content that is delivered to the Edge - and **L2 Caching** - to clean up web content at the layer closest to your origin.

---

## 3. Types of Purge {#Types-of-Purge}

You can run Real-Time Purge on either the **Edge Caching** or **L2 Caching** product by entering as a parameter the  *URLs* list, a *Wildcard* expression, or the list of *Cache Keys*.

| URL Purge                                                    | Cache Key Purge                                              | Wildcard Purge                                               |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| It is the simplest way to purge your content cache by passing a URL list of until 50 objects per request. You cannot purge content cache variations with this method. | It is the most accurate way to purge your content cache by entering a cache key list of until 50 objects per request. | It is a powerful way to purge a list of objects by entering a Wildcard expression. You can use the wildcard character (*) in path or query string arguments. |

#### See the details of each type of purge: 

**URL Purge**

It allows you to purge cached objects, by entering a list of URLs as an argument. The URL format must respect the standard: `scheme://host` or just `host`, followed or not by a `/path` and the  `?query-string`. When hiding the scheme, both "http" and "https" contents will be purged.

A URL Purge is non-recursive, which means that only the URLs entered will be purged from the cache. The URLs are automatically converted to their respective Cache Keys, without considering any content variation in the same URL. 

> Since this operation will not expire content variations based on cookies, device groups, image format, or others, consider using **Cache Key Purge** or **Wildcard Purge** for these situations.  

The expiration of content variations based on Query String can be run using URL Purge, since Query String is a component of the URL, as long as the arguments used for content variation are sent in the correct order in which they were presented. If you use the Query String Sort feature, either sort the arguments in the request, or consider using Cache Key Purge or Wildcard Purge as an alternative.

> If you use the asterisk (*) character in a URL Purge request, it will be treated as a character in the URL and not as a Wildcard.

Examples of a URL Purge:

~~~
www.yourdomain.com
static.yourdomain.com/include/site.css
static.yourdomain.com/include/site.js
dynamic.yourdomain.com/app.py?argument
~~~

**Cache Key Purge**

It allows you to purge cached objects by passing a list of Cache Keys as an argument.

A Cache Key is an index entry for an object in Azion's cache. The default cache key format adopted by Azion uses the *URL host* and *path* to identify objects. You can specify an advanced cache key to identify different variations of an object, based on:

*   Query String or Query String Sort arguments;
*   cookies (when using [Azion Application Acceleration]({% tl documentation_products_application_acceleration %}));
*   device groups (when using [Azion Adaptive Delivery]({% tl documentation_products_adaptative_delivery %}));
*   image format according to browser support (when using [Azion Image Optimization]({% tl documentation_products_image_optimization %})).

To obtain the Cache Key, you must request the content using Azion Debug Header (Pragma: azion-debug-cache), for example:

~~~
HEAD /path HTTP/1.1 Host: yourdomain.com Pragma: azion-debug-cache
~~~

The response will return a header with the cache key (X-Cache-Key), for example:

~~~
X-Cache-Key: yourdomain.com/path@@
~~~

Each object variation is represented by a distinct cache key and is expired individually. For example, if there is an object variation per device group, each URL in each group will have a distinct Cache Key with the separator “`@@`” and the device group name. To purge all variations, you must search for the cache key individually for each group.

Examples of Cache Key Purge:

~~~
www.yourdomain.com/@@ www.yourdomain.com/@@Mobile 
static.yourdomain.com/include/site.css 
static.yourdomain.com/include/site.js 
static.yourdomain.com/static/images/image_1.jpg?ims=880x@@ 
static.yourdomain.com/static/images/image_1.jpg?ims=880x@@webp
~~~

**Wildcard Purge**

It allows you to purge cached object by giving a Wildcard expression as an argument. The Wildcard expression format must be according to the standard: `scheme://host` or just `host`, followed or not by a `/path` and the `?query-string`, with an asterisk character (*) in the path or query string.

The Wildcard expression is automatically converted to multiple objects in the same domain. To expire the content variations based on cookies, device groups or image format, for the same URL, use the URL with the expression “`@@ *`” at the end.

~~~
www.yourdomain.com/*
static.yourdomain.com/include/*.css
static.yourdomain.com/*/site.js
static.yourdomain.com/static/images/image_1.jpg?ims=*
dynamic.yourdomain.com/app.py@@*
~~~

You can even use multiple wildcards to select a complex pattern.
~~~
www.yourdomain.com/alpha*
www.yourdomain.com/*beta*
www.yourdomain.com/*a*/charlie
www.yourdomain.com/*a*/*a*
www.yourdomain.com/*?b*
www.yourdomain.com/*?*2*c=*
~~~

---

## 4. Purge methods {#Purge-methods}

### Delete

The Delete method removes the object from the cache. In the next user's content request, an unconditional GET request will be made to the origin.

This purge method prevents Azion from delivering an outdated object (_stale_) if the origin is inaccessible. Instead, if the origin is inaccessible, an error page will be delivered.

#### The use of the Delete method is indicated for:

*   removing content from Azion's cache, after it has been removed from the origin;
*   forcing the removal and later updating of contents for which the *timestamp* is unreliable;
*   forcing the delivery of an error page  instead of an outdated object (*stale*), if your origin is inaccessible and Azion is unable to get the latest version of your content.

---

## 5. Purge objects with content variation {#Purge-objects-with-content-variation}

### Adaptive Delivery

When using the Adaptive Delivery product, you will be using an advanced cache key. In addition to _host_ and _path_, the cache key will include the `@@` separator followed by the device group name.

For example, for the same URL http://www.yourdomain.com/, using Adaptive Delivery, the cache keys could be:

~~~
www.yourdomain.com/@@
www.yourdomain.com/@@Mobile
www.yourdomain.com/@@Tablet
~~~

To purge objects with variations based on device groups, you can either use Cache Key Purge, entering all the variations individually, or a Wildcard Purge, using `@@*` at the end.

### Application Acceleration

When using cookie-based content variation, in addition to the *host* and *path*, the cache key will include the `@@` separator followed by the name of the cookies used and values.

For example, for the same URL http://www.yourdomain.com/, using content variation based on the “user” cookie, the cache keys could be:

~~~
www.yourdomain.com/@@
www.yourdomain.com/@@user=user1 
www.yourdomain.com/@@user=user2
~~~

To purge objects with cookie-based variation, you can use Cache Key Purge, entering all variations individually, or a Wildcard Purge, using `@@*` at the end.

When using Query String based content variation, in addition to the _host_ and _path_, the cache key will include the `?` separator and the query string arguments used. For example:

~~~
dynamic.yourdomain.com/product.py?id=1000 
dynamic.yourdomain.com/product.py?id=1001
~~~

To purge objects with variation based on query string, you can use a Cache Key Purge, entering all the variations individually, or a Wildcard Purge, using `?*` at the end, or a URL Purge, entering in the URL only the arguments used in the cache key. If you use Query String Sort, the arguments must be sent in the correct order.

### Image Optimization

By using Image Optimization, you will be using an advanced cache key. In addition to _host_ and _path_, will the cache key include the separator`?` and the product arguments, and the `@@` separator for identifying image format variation supported by the browser.

Examples of cache keys using Image Optimization:

~~~
static.yourdomain.com/static/images/image.jpg@@ 
static.yourdomain.com/static/images/image.jpg@@webp 
static.yourdomain.com/static/images/image.jpg?ims=88x@@ 
static.yourdomain.com/static/images/image.jpg?ims=88x@@webp
~~~

To purge images processed by Image Optimization, you can use a Cache Key Purge, entering all variations individually, or a Wildcard Purge, using `*` at the end.

### Sliced Files

If you use cache optimization to deliver large files – *sliced files* – such as in  _Progressive Download_ media, you will be using an advanced cache key. In addition to _host_ and _path_,  the cache key will include the `@@bytes=` separator, for each slice of content.

Examples of cache keys using optimization for delivering large files:

~~~
static.yourdomain.com/midias/file.mp4@@bytes=0-1048575 
static.yourdomain.com/midias/file.mp4@@bytes=1048576-2097151
~~~

To purge objects using this optimization, you must use a Wildcard Purge, with `@@*` at the end. You can also use the Cache Key Purge, as long as you enter the cache key for all _slices_ correctly.

Be careful when you purge for a slice individually, because if there is a change of content at the origin, it may be inconsistent in the cache.

### Media Packager

When using the Media Packager product to deliver your media in HLS, you will be using the dynamic packaging feature, which automatically creates an m3u8 playlist and segments your media into ts chunks. The URL of your content will be created dynamically by Media Packager.

Examples of a cache key using Media Packager:

~~~
medias.yourdomain.com/your_id/_definst_/mp4:yourmedia.mp4/chunklist.m3u8 
medias.yourdomain.com/your_id/_definst_/mp4:yourmedia.mp4/media_1.ts 
medias.yourdomain.com/your_id/_definst_/mp4:yourmedia.mp4/media_2.ts 
medias.yourdomain.com/your_id/_definst_/mp4:yourmedia.mp4/media_3.ts
~~~

To purge objects created via Media Packager, you can either use a Cache Key Purge, entering all playlist cache keys and chunks individually, or use a Wildcard Purge, placing `*` after the name of your media file.

### Live Ingest

If you use the Live Ingest product for transmuxing your Live streams from RTMP to HLS, the m3u8 playlists and ts chunks will be created automatically.

You cannot purge this type of content. The m3u8 playlist and ts chunks will automatically expire via TTL.

### POST Method

By default, Azion allows caching of GET and HEAD methods only. You can enable the POST caching in your Cache Settings, in which case you will be using an advanced cache key. In addition to *hos*t and *path*, the cache key will include the `@@` separator followed by the MD5 hash of the request body (POST arguments).

~~~
dynamic.yourdomain.com/path@@md5_of_post_arguments
~~~

To purge these objects, you can either use a Cache Key Purge, entering all variations individually, or a Wildcard Purge, using `@@*` at the end.

### Custom Configurations

If you have a Custom Configuration with a custom cache key, you must use the Cache Key Purge to delete the cache of your objects. In addition to _host_ and _path_, the cache key may include the `@@` separator followed by its custom arguments.

~~~
dynamic.yourdomain.com/path@@custom_arguments
~~~

You need to refer to the custom format of your cache key to run the Cache Key Purge.

---

## 6. Purge confirmation {#Purge-confirmation}

The purge is an operation that does not require confirmation. Since the Real-Time Purge is completed almost instantly, no confirmation of the operation is required and you can expect your purges to be completed in less than 3 seconds, except in the case of consistent use of Rate Limits.

When needed, you can query the purging history to find out the user who made the request, the time, argument list, purge type and method.

---

## 7. Limits {#Limits}

The purge operation is performed according to the following usage limits, based on the type and number of objects that are being purged:

*   **URL** and **Cache Key Purges**: up to 10,000 objects every 60 seconds, up to 200 requests with 50 objects per request, per client. The URL and Cache Key are limited to 4,096 characters.
*   **Wildcard Purges**: up to 2,000 requests per day (per 24h interval), one Wildcard URL per request. The Wildcard URL is limited to 256 characters.
*   Purging history is limited to 6 months and up to 1 million requests.

---

Didn't find what you were looking for? [Open a support ticket.](https://tickets.azion.com/)