---
layout: page-documentation-md
title: Network Layer Protection
description: Azion's Network Layer Protection allows you to create watch lists based
  on the network (IP / CIDR).
meta_tags: security, edge computing
namespace: documentation_products_network_layer_protection
permalink: "/documentation/products/network-layer-protection/"
permalink_en: "/documentation/products/network-layer-protection/"
permalink_pt-br: "/documentacao/produtos/network-layer-protection/"

---
# Network Layer Protection

[Edit on GitHub <svg width="14" height="14" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><g fill="none" stroke="#F3652B"><path d="M4.81.71H.672v11.43H12.1V8.001" stroke-width=".8"/><path d="M6.87.786h5.155V5.94M6.31 6.5L12.026.786"/></g></svg>](https://github.com/aziontech/docs_en/edit/master/network-layer-protection/index.md)

Azion's **Network Layer Protection** allows you to create lists based on the network IP/CIDR, user location or ASN, or use automatic lists maintained and updated by Azion, such as a Tor network address list. With this, you can block , monitor suspicious behavior or apply restrictions, such as: access limit.

> It is a programmable security perimeter where you get your network layer protection at the edge from all inbound and outbound traffic.

If you have a SIEM or other security tools in your infrastructure, you can use the *Network Lists API* to keep your *blocklists* and *allowlists* always up to date.

> 1. *[How it works](#how-it-works)*
> 2. *[Network Lists](#network-lists)*
> 3. *[Origin Shield](#origin-shield)*
> 4. *[Support Documentation](#support-documents)*

---

## 1. How it works {#how-it-works}

When activating the *Network Layer Protection* module in *Main Settings* of a Rule Set in **Edge Firewall**, the Conditions - *Criteria* - and *behaviors* will be enabled in the *Rules Engine* tab of the Rule Set.

> The conditions - Criteria - available with the activation of the *Network Layer Protection* module are: *Hostname, Network, Request URI* and *Scheme*. And the *behaviors* are: *Deny (403 Forbidden), Drop (Close Witout Response)* and *Set Rate Limit*. 

Use the *Network* Criteria  to create rules with lists based on the network, user location or ASN, or use ready-to-use lists that are kept up-to-date by Azion itself, such as the outbound addresses of the Tor Network *Azion IP Tor Exit Nodes*. You can block, monitor suspicious behavior or apply restrictions according to the chosen behavior.

Activate other modules in the *Rule Set* to get numerous combinations of condition and behavior in the *Rules Engine*. For example, *Network Layer Protection* and *Web Application Firewall* If: **Network** matches My-Country-BlockList *And* **Header User Agent** - Unique criteria of the *Web Application Firewall* module - *does not match* Googlebot Then: **Deny**. In this case requests originating from countries that are on the blocklist will be blocked unless the user-agent header contains "Googlebot". 

> The conditions and behaviors available in *Edge Firewall* depend on the modules you enable in the *Rule Set*. You will have a greater number of protection combinations if the *Web Application Firewall module* is also enabled.

---

## 2. Network Lists {#network-lists}

Through **Network Lists** you can create, search, or update the Network Lists used in the *Edge Firewall Rules Engine*. Add and maintain your own lists in **Network Lists** via  Real-Time Manager or API. A single Network List can be associated with more than one Edge Firewall Rule or Rule Set. Whenever the Network List is updated, it will automatically propagate to all the rules in the associated Network List. To find out more and learn how to use it, check the [Network Lists](https://www.azion.com/en/documentation/products/edge-firewall/network-lists) support documentation.

---

## 3. Origin Shield {#origin-shield}

Origin Shield is an Azion Network Layer Protection add-on. You will be able to create a security perimeter for your origin infrastructure, be it a *cloud*, *hosting* provider, or even your own *data center*. With this service, your origin will be able to restrict access only to specific IP addresses of our network and block any other access to your origin.

Our IP list may change frequently, but after updating it, we will only put the new servers into production for those using the Origin Shield add-on 7 days after the list is published. You can also track and trace the changes made to the list through the *History* of the Real-Time Manager. There you can find which IP's have been added or deleted from the list.

Our "quarantine" process allows you to add new addresses one week in advance, that means, whenever a new address is added to the list, it will be on standby for 7 days before being activated, giving you that time to update your firewall rules. 

>You can also be updated by email, whenever the *Origin Shield* addresses are changed.

**Origin Shield** is available via Real-Time Manager or our API. To learn more and how to use our API, check the documentation on how to [Consult Network List data - Origin Shield.](https://www.azion.com/en/documentation/products/api/v3/network-lists/)

Consult the list of Origin Shield IP's,  following these steps:

1. Go to [Real-Time Manager](https://manager.azion.com/), access the *Libraries > Network Lists* menu.
2. Click on *Azion IP Origin Shield* Network List to see the list;
3. The list can be viewed with the *View Network Lists* permission and the IP's are in the *List* field.

---

## 4. Support Documentation {#support-documents}

- [Edge Firewall](https://www.azion.com/en/documentation/products/edge-firewall/)

---

Didn't find what you were looking for? [Open a support ticket.](https://tickets.azion.com/)
