---
layout: page-documentation-md
title: Peering
description: "Founded in 2011, Azion enables you to build and run serverless applications at the edge of the network or your own premisses, closer to users and devices."
meta_tags:  "Azion Peering Police"
namespace:     documentation_peering
permalink:      /documentation/products/peering/
permalink_en:   /documentation/products/peering/
permalink_pt-br:   /documentacao/produtos/peering/
---

# Interconnection

### About Azion
Founded in 2011, Azion enables you to build and run serverless applications at the edge of the network or your own premisses, closer to users and devices.

Azion's Edge Computing Platform is ideal for applications that require low latency response times or real-time data processing and addresses some of the most complex computing and networking challenges, including availability, performance, scalability and security of mission-critical services. Considered by Gartner, Forrester and IDC as one of the top 10 technology trends impacting infrastructure and operations, Edge Computing delivers innovative mission-critical services needed to build the future of e-commerce, games, finance, media and applications such as IoT, AI , 5G, augmented reality (AR) and virtual reality (VR). Create fast and secure digital businesses without the hassles of deploying, maintaining, or scaling the infrastructure. Move to the Edge!

---

### Peering

Azion Network Settlement-Free Interconnection (“Peering”) Policy and Requirements:

Azion is a global Edge Compute Company with POP (point of presence) locations across the Latin America, the United States, Europe, and Africa. Azion peers with other Internet Service Providers (ISPs) and Content Networks with IPv4 connectivity on Autonomous System **(AS) 52580** for the purpose of exchanging traffic between these networks.

#### Selective Peering-Policy

Azion has a selective peering policy - peers are selected based upon performance, capability, and where traffic needs to be delivered. Peers are subject to certain operational, technical, and legal requirements.

---

### Technical Requirements

The following technical requirements also apply to peering with Azion Peers must:


* Have a publicly routed ASN.
* We have a required minimum of 500 Mbps of traffic destined to or through your network. We welcome the opportunity to engage in peering with responsible BGP speakers in an effort to improve the experience of all users from our customers.<br>Both parties must provide a 24/7 contact who can escalate critical issues in a timely fashion.
* Not advertise prefixes with a mask longer than /24 for IPv4.
* Demonstrate that announced publicly routable prefixes and/or aggregates are currently visible in the DFZ.
* Announce a consistent set of prefixes to Azion at all points of interconnection, unless otherwise agreed upon.
* Only send traffic destined for prefixes announced by Azion.
* Not point a default route at Azion or use static routes to send traffic to our AS.
* Set default maximum prefixes per session to 250 prefixes.
* Register their prefixes with appropriate route/route6 objects at an appropriate IRRDB, and maintain a full and accurate PeeringDB listing. Azion will use this data to build BGP prefix lists and we ensure correctness of advertise of our peers (SFI, SBI and PNI) by implementing explicit filtering.
* Generate prefix lists from the AS-Macro AS-AZION, registered at RADB and TC.
* Interconnections should occur in mutual locations, with a minimal 2x 10G SFP+ Ethernet interfaces, and the interface capacity upgrades should occur in a timely manner to ensure a high end-user quality of experience.

---

### Peering Information

**ASN:** AS52580

**PeeringDB:** as52580.peeringdb.com

---

### Contact Information

**Peering Policies:** peering@azion.com
**Peering Operations:** noc@azion.com
**Website URL:** www.azion.com
**About Azion:** www.azion.com/about

---

Didn't find what you were looking for? [Open a support ticket.](https://tickets.azion.com/)
