---
layout: page-documentation-md
title:   Marketplace User Guide
description:  The Azion Marketplace is the place to find, deploy, and manage third-party software that you need to build solutions and accelerate go-to-market for your business.
meta_tags:  marketplace, edge computing

namespace:     docs_marketplace

permalink:      /documentation/products/marketplace/
permalink_en:   /documentation/products/marketplace/
permalink_pt-br:   /documentacao/produtos/marketplace/
---
# Marketplace

[Edit on GitHub <svg width="14" height="14" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><g fill="none" stroke="#F3652B"><path d="M4.81.71H.672v11.43H12.1V8.001" stroke-width=".8"/><path d="M6.87.786h5.155V5.94M6.31 6.5L12.026.786"/></g></svg>](https://github.com/aziontech/docs_en/edit/master/marketplace/2021-01-14-index.md)

**Azion Marketplace** is the place to find, deploy, and manage third-party Software you need to build solutions and accelerate your business go-to-market.

You can quickly launch Software, with just a few clicks, choosing software solutions such as *Azion Cells Package (ACP)* and *Software as a Service (SaaS)*.

In addition, you can create your *ACP* or integrate your *SaaS*, publish your solution on **Azion Marketplace**, and thus have a new revenue stream.

1. [*How it works*](#how-it-works)
2. [*Launching a new product*](#launching-a-new-product)
3. [*Using a purchased product*](#using-a-purchased-product)
4. [*Becoming an Independent Software Vendor*](#becomig-an-independent-software-vendor)

## 1. How it works {#how-it-works}
**Azion Marketplace** offers you products that can be launched for your edge resources, which can be [Edge Firewall](../edge-firewall/) or [Edge Application](../edge-application/) on Azion Platform. 

Once you have launched a product, you will find it in your account on Azion Platform so you can start using it right away.

At this stage, you will find either *Free* or *Bring Your Own License* products, which refer to the products you buy a license directly from an *Independent Software Vendor (ISV)*.

Once you have launched a product, you can create an instance of this product in your **Edge Application** and you're ready to use it.

## 2. Launching a new product {#launching-a-new-product}
To launch a new product, you can browse through the several product categories available on **Azion Marketplace** and find the one that best suits your needs.

Before using a product, you have to assure it meets the requirements so that the product can work properly. You will find the details at the **Overview** tab.

You have to agree to *Azion's Customer Agreement* to launch a product. Once launched, it will be available in your account on Azion Platform. 

Follow the steps below to get started:

1. Access [Real-Time Manager](https://manager.azion.com/)  and select **Marketplace** on the top left menu;
2. Search for a product or choose from our featured and new releases list;
3. Agree to the *Azion's Customer Agreement*;
4. Click the **Launch** button;
5. The selected product will be launched in your account and will be available to be instantiated in your **Edge Application**.

## 3. Using a purchased product {#using-a-purchased-product}
Each product has its own purpose with specific features, and you will find more information about this in the **Usage Information** and **Support** tabs.

If you purchased a *Software as a Service* product you will find it available as an **Edge Function** to be instantiated in your existing **Edge Application**. 

You can get more information about the **Edge Functions** module [here](../edge-functions/).

If you purchased an *Azion Cell Package* product, you will find it as a new **Edge Application** to be used in your account. 

You can get more information about the **Edge Application** product [here](../edge-application/). 

## 4. Becoming an Independent Software Vendor {#becomig-an-independent-software-vendor}
You can integrate your SaaS or develop your own product on Azion Platform, publish it on  Azion Marketplace and start selling your product.

To do so, you need to become an *Independent Software Vendor* by following the process described [here](./isv-signup/) or reach us at integration@azion.com

We will analyze your request and get in touch to guide you through the ISV process.

---

Didn't find what you were looking for? [Open a support ticket.](https://tickets.azion.com/)
